readme.md, before:

# Welcome to the HSR-Stud organization!

## The Idea behind HSR-Stud
### Who are we?

We are students from the University of Applied sciences in Rapperswil, formerly HSR now OST, mainly but not only from the faculty of electrical engineering.

### What is the idea behind all of this?

Many courses are taught every year, with examinations that are always more or less similar to the previous year. And every year many students hastily write very similar looking cheat sheets for each subject. But isn't there a better way? Couldn't we combine forces and have a good one, instead of many poorly written? This is exactly what this is community's goal. We use LaTeX and Git for collaborative effort of producing high quality documents for our community.

### How is this different from StudendenPortal?

On the StudentenPortal, already made cheat sheets are published for everyone to use, but if there is a little typo or something is not quite right, there is only one way to correct the mistake: by asking the original author to fix it.
But what if the original author is no longer a student? Or if he's too busy with his / her work? Wouldn't be nice if you could fix it yourself? On HSR-Stud you can.

## Wo finde ich welches Modul?

Gehe auf: [Module finden](./document-list.md)

## Wie kann ich mitmachen?

Wenn du HSR-Stud organisieren möchtest, ein Repo verbessern oder ein neues Schreiben.
Bist du herzlich Willkommen:-)
[Jetzt mitmachen!](./contributing.md)

## Erste Schritte

Unter [Tutorials](./tutorials) findest du folgendes:

- Latex installieren
- Git installieren
- Latex Dokument erstellen
- Travis (für Fortgeschrittene)

## Weitere Fragen?

Dann bist du hier genau richtig: [FAQ](./FAQ.md)

## Weitere nützliche Tools

Findest du hier: [resources](./resources.md)

Commit message:

Translate german part of readme
The inconsistency was kinda ugly

readme.md, after:

# Welcome to the HSR-Stud organization!

## The Idea behind HSR-Stud
### Who are we?

We are students from the University of Applied sciences in Rapperswil, formerly HSR now OST, mainly but not only from the faculty of electrical engineering.

### What is the idea behind all of this?

Many courses are taught every year, with examinations that are always more or less similar to the previous year. And every year many students hastily write very similar looking cheat sheets for each subject. But isn't there a better way? Couldn't we combine forces and have a good one, instead of many poorly written? This is exactly what this is community's goal. We use LaTeX and Git for collaborative effort of producing high quality documents for our community.

### How is this different from StudendenPortal?

On the StudentenPortal, already made cheat sheets are published for everyone to use, but if there is a little typo or something is not quite right, there is only one way to correct the mistake: by asking the original author to fix it.
But what if the original author is no longer a student? Or if he's too busy with his / her work? Wouldn't be nice if you could fix it yourself? On HSR-Stud you can.

## Where do I find a module?

See [the document list](./document-list.md).

## How can I help?

If you want to be a part of the organization, correct an existing document or write a new one that is still missing, you're very welcome! [Read here how you can contribute](./contributing.md).

### First steps

We are working on some [tutorials](./tutorials) to get you started. The best of course is to ask us directly, in person on campus.

### Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

See [FAQ](./FAQ.md). There are also some [additional resources](./resources.md) you may be interested in.
